Only 10% of your cells are human. The other 90% is made up of 90 trillion microbes that live on you or in you.
Did you know that your stomach acid can dissolve razor blades?
Speaking of the stomach, did you know that you get a new stomach lining every three to four days?
We share 98.4% of our DNA with a chimp – and 70% with a slug.
An adult has fewer bones than a baby!
Mercury is toxic to humans but was used for wounds and medical treatments up until the 20th century.
In the 20th century, lobotomies were legitimate treatments for various mental health illnesses.
Surgeons once believed that bloodletting was beneficial to health. Fevers, apoplexy and headache were thought to be a result of too much blood!
Doctors used to inject paraffin to smooth out wrinkles.
Chloroform was used as the original anaesthetic. Up until the 1950’s when its toxic effects were discovered.
Your eyes blink around 20 times a minute. That’s over ten million times a year!
Your ears never stop growing!
Earwax is actually a type of sweat!
The tongue is covered in about 8,000 taste-buds, each containing up to 100 cells helping you taste your food!
You produce about 40,000 litres of spit in your lifetime. Or to put it another way, enough spit to fill around five hundred bathtubs – yuck!
The average nose produces about a cupful of nasal mucus every day!
You are about 1cm taller in the morning when you first get up than when you go to bed. This is because during the day the soft cartilage between your bones gets squashed and compressed.
If you walked for 12 hours a day, it would take the average person 690 days to walk around the world.
The only muscle that never tires is the heart.
The entire surface of your skin is replaced every month, which put another way means you have about 1,000 different skins in your life!
The body has 2.5 million sweat pores.
Every minute you shed over 30,000 dead skin cells.
If you live to age 70, your heart will have beat around 2.5 billion times!
Spread across their lifetime, most people spend an average of one whole year sitting on the toilet.
On average you fart enough in one day to fill a party balloon.
We wee enough wee every month to fill a bath!
The cornea is the only part of the body with no blood supply – it gets its oxygen directly from the air.
The human body contains enough fat to make seven bars of soap.
Embryos develop fingerprints three months after conception.
Between birth and death, the human body goes from having 300 bones, to just 206.
Hearts can beat outside of their bodies.
When you blush, the inside of your stomach does too.
Humans have a “diving reflex” that shuts down bodily functions when submerged in water to prevent drowning.
There are certain kinds of tumors that can grow their own teeth and hair – they’re called teratomas.
Humans are bioluminescent, the light just isn’t perceptible to the human eye.
Astronauts can grow up to two inches taller in space.
Your brain can survive for five to 10 minutes without oxygen.
In cases of extreme starvation, the brain will begin to eat itself.
When listening to music, your heartbeat will sync with the rhythm.
The small intestine is roughly 23 feet long.
One quarter of your bones are in your feet.
Every organ you have two of, you only need one of to survive.
There are more than 100,000 miles of blood vessels in your body.
You are taller in the morning than you are at night.
You can’t breathe and swallow at the same time.
Your left kidney is higher up than your right kidney.
Your ears and your nose never stop growing.
“Pregnancy brain” is totally real – Women’s brains actually shrink during pregnancy.
If you smoothed out all of the wrinkles in your brain, it would lay flat the size of a pillowcase.
Stomach acid can dissolve metal. If it touched your skin, it would burn right through it.
At some point, you may have fought cancer.
The average person produces enough saliva in their lifetime to fill two swimming pools.
Tongue prints are as unique as fingerprints.
Humans shed about 600,000 particles of skin every hour.
Babies only blink once or twice a minute, while adults average 10 times a minute.
The jaw muscle is the stongest in the human body.
While awake, your brain produces enough electricity to light a lightbulb.
In camera terms, the human eye is about 576 megapixels.
You carry, on average, about four pounds of bacteria around in your body.
The highest recorded fever ever was 115 degrees Fahrenheit.
50 percent of your hand strength comes from your pinky finger.
Men’s testicles hang below their bodies because sperm dies at body temperature.
Cornflakes have more genes than people do.
You might feel like you got a workout, but sex only burns about 3.6 calories a minute.
Humans can’t digest grass. Despite health fanatics claiming wheatgrass aids digestion, humans would actually need several more stomachs to digest it, like cows have.
The scientific name for stomach growls is “borborygmus.”